#Change Impact Analysis through Mutation Testing
###Final Project, MSc Computer Science, UCL

## Abstract
   
In an AGILE environment developers should be prepared to incorporate frequent 
changes while ensuring that they maintain the quality and functionality of the 
system. Yet, even minor changes can affect other, seemingly unrelated parts of 
the system, and techniques such as Change Impact Analysis (CIA) help manage 
changes more effectively in order to eliminate or mitigate any associated risks. 
This research investigates the potential use of mutation testing as an approach 
to CIA, and thus aims to use mutation testing to analyse and assess the direct 
and indirect impact of changes in source code between consecutive versions of a 
software as historically recorded through a version control system.
   
To achieve this aim, a software tool was developed in Java, which enabled the 
collection of data regarding the changes introduced between subsequent commits 
of a project in files and their contents, test cases, and – by means of mutation 
testing – in mutations and mutation test results; this tool was then used to 
collect such data from five case study projects. This was then analysed and 
interpreted in order to identify the impact of changes on mutations and mutation 
test results, as well as similarities and differences between the projects 
considered.
   
The research shows that mutation testing may be used as a technique of CIA, and 
as it can be fully automated, it may be employed as a testing method in the 
process of continuous integration. The data analysis and interpretation helps 
reveal certain patterns and trends in the case study projects considered, with 
further research needed to better understand the impact of changes on mutation 
test results, and to improve the accuracy of the change impact data generated. 
Abstract

In an AGILE environment developers should be prepared to incorporate frequent 
changes while ensuring that they maintain the quality and functionality of the 
system. Yet, even minor changes can affect other, seemingly unrelated parts of 
the system, and techniques such as Change Impact Analysis (CIA) help manage 
changes more effectively in order to eliminate or mitigate any associated risks. 
This research investigates the potential use of mutation testing as an approach 
to CIA, and thus aims to use mutation testing to analyse and assess the direct 
and indirect impact of changes in source code between consecutive versions of a 
software as historically recorded through a version control system.

To achieve this aim, a software tool was developed in Java, which enabled the 
collection of data regarding the changes introduced between subsequent commits 
of a project in files and their contents, test cases, and – by means of mutation 
testing – in mutations and mutation test results; this tool was then used to 
collect such data from five case study projects. This was then analysed and 
interpreted in order to identify the impact of changes on mutations and mutation 
test results, as well as similarities and differences between the projects 
considered.

The research shows that mutation testing may be used as a technique of CIA, and 
as it can be fully automated, it may be employed as a testing method in the 
process of continuous integration. The data analysis and interpretation helps 
reveal certain patterns and trends in the case study projects considered, with 
further research needed to better understand the impact of changes on mutation 
test results, and to improve the accuracy of the change impact data generated. 

